docs/user-manual/civiform-admin-guide/add-categories.md, before:

# Tag a program with categories

CiviForm admins can label a program with one or more categories.  These categories serve as filters on the applicant home page, helping residents to find the types of programs they are looking for.  Here are some of the available categories:
- Education
- Childcare
- Food
- Housing
- Transportation

## Steps to add a category to a program

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm admin.
2. On the Program List Page, find the program that needs categories.
3. Click the 3-dots menu to the right.
4. Select **Edit**.
5. Click **Edit program details**.
6. Scroll to the section that says "Tag this program with 1 or more categories to make it easier to find".
7. Select one or more of the category checkboxes.
8. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click **Save**.


{% embed url="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1edAU1ySN7evy5lsbf3W5eZZx5-C09SuK/view?usp=drive_link" %} {% endembed %}

## Additional information 
- Pre-screener forms cannot be labeled with categories since there is only one pre-screener, making a search filter unnecessary.
- Categories have been pre-translated.
- At this time, it is not possible to create a custom category, although this will likely be possible in the future.

Commit message:

Added a screenshot of applicant home page with filters

docs/user-manual/civiform-admin-guide/add-categories.md, after:

# Tag a program with categories

CiviForm admins can label a program with one or more categories.  These categories serve as filters on the applicant home page, helping residents to find the types of programs they are looking for.  Here are some of the available categories:
- Education
- Childcare
- Food
- Housing
- Transportation

## Steps to add a category to a program

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm admin.
2. On the Program List Page, find the program that needs categories.
3. Click the 3-dots menu to the right.
4. Select **Edit**.
5. Click **Edit program details**.
6. Scroll to the section that says "Tag this program with 1 or more categories to make it easier to find".
7. Select one or more of the category checkboxes.
8. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click **Save**.


{% embed url="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1edAU1ySN7evy5lsbf3W5eZZx5-C09SuK/view?usp=drive_link" %} {% endembed %}

## How categories will appear to applicants
After categories have been added to the programs, the selected categories will show as options to filter programs on the home page.  Also, program cards will be labeled with the categories the program belongs to.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6ff21be5-9a38-4e23-8c4e-60fa9f029a5e)


## Additional information 
- Pre-screener forms cannot be labeled with categories since there is only one pre-screener, making a search filter unnecessary.
- Categories have been pre-translated.
- At this time, it is not possible to create a custom category, although this will likely be possible in the future.
