docs/user-manual/civiform-admin-guide/manage-trusted-intermediaries.md, before:

# Manage Trusted Intermediaries

CiviForm Admins are responsible for setting up and managing Trusted Intermediaries. A Trusted Intermediary Group is a Community-Based Organization (CBO) that helps people apply for benefit programs. A Trusted Intermediary is a CBO staff member who interacts with Applicants.

Watch the video or follow the step-by-step guide below.

{% embed url="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FZE5Ar9Bc3XvrcQFpceVbxpfFk0RrWOb/view?usp=sharing" %} {% endembed %}


### Create a Trusted Intermediary Group

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm Admin.
2. Click **Intermediaries** on the navigation bar.
3. Enter information for the group.
4. Click **Create**.\
   The new group appears in the list of groups.

**Note**: Once the Trusted Intermediary Group field is set, it cannot be edited.

### Add a Trusted Intermediary to a Trusted Intermediary Group

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm Admin.
2. Click **Intermediaries** on the navigation bar and select a Trusted Intermediary Group.
3. Click **Edit**.
4. Enter the work email address of the staff member you wish to add.
5. Click **Add**.\
   The new staff member appears in the list of groups.

### Delete a Trusted Intermediary Group

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm Admin.
2. Click **Intermediaries** on the navigation bar.
3. Select a Trusted Intermediary Group and click **Delete**.\
   The group and its associated members are removed from the list of groups.

**Note**: Deleting a group also deletes the group members. However, program applications submitted by the deleted group remain in the system.

### Delete a Trusted Intermediary Group member

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm Admin.
2. Click **Intermediaries** on the navigation bar.
3. Select a Trusted Intermediary Group and click **Edit**.
4. Select a Trusted Intermediary and click **Delete**.\
   The Trusted Intermediary is removed from the list of members for the group.

**Note**: Deleting a Trusted Intermediary doesn’t remove the program applications submitted by the group member.

Commit message:

Add note about requiring unique group names (#556)
This doc update is a response to https://github.com/civiform/civiform/pull/10098

docs/user-manual/civiform-admin-guide/manage-trusted-intermediaries.md, after:

# Manage Trusted Intermediaries

CiviForm Admins are responsible for setting up and managing Trusted Intermediaries. A Trusted Intermediary Group is a Community-Based Organization (CBO) that helps people apply for benefit programs. A Trusted Intermediary is a CBO staff member who interacts with Applicants.

Watch the video or follow the step-by-step guide below.

{% embed url="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FZE5Ar9Bc3XvrcQFpceVbxpfFk0RrWOb/view?usp=sharing" %} {% endembed %}


### Create a Trusted Intermediary Group

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm Admin.
2. Click **Intermediaries** on the navigation bar.
3. Enter information for the group (**Note**: The group name should be unique).
4. Click **Create**.\
   The new group appears in the list of groups.

**Note**: Once the Trusted Intermediary Group field is set, it cannot be edited.

### Add a Trusted Intermediary to a Trusted Intermediary Group

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm Admin.
2. Click **Intermediaries** on the navigation bar and select a Trusted Intermediary Group.
3. Click **Edit**.
4. Enter the work email address of the staff member you wish to add.
5. Click **Add**.\
   The new staff member appears in the list of groups.

### Delete a Trusted Intermediary Group

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm Admin.
2. Click **Intermediaries** on the navigation bar.
3. Select a Trusted Intermediary Group and click **Delete**.\
   The group and its associated members are removed from the list of groups.

**Note**: Deleting a group also deletes the group members. However, program applications submitted by the deleted group remain in the system.

### Delete a Trusted Intermediary Group member

1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm Admin.
2. Click **Intermediaries** on the navigation bar.
3. Select a Trusted Intermediary Group and click **Edit**.
4. Select a Trusted Intermediary and click **Delete**.\
   The Trusted Intermediary is removed from the list of members for the group.

**Note**: Deleting a Trusted Intermediary doesn’t remove the program applications submitted by the group member.
