docs/user-manual/civiform-admin-guide/set-external-program.md, before:

# Set an external program

CiviForm admins can add programs hosted outside of CiviForm to reduce the burden on residents of navigating multiple websites to search for relevant programs and information. External programs will be presented to applicants along with other programs, but with a clear indicator that the program opens in a link outside of CiviForm.

## Enable external programs feature
External programs are currently under a feature flag. The feature must be turned on to allow external programs be added by admins and be visible to applicants.
To enable external programs feature:
1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm admin.
2. Select **Settings** on the navgiation bar.
3. Enable **EXTERNAL_PROGRAM_CARDS_ENABLED**.

## Create an external program
1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm admin.
2. Click **Programs** on the navigation bar.
3. Click **Create a new program**.
4. Select **External program** as the program type.
5. Add the link to the external program site.

Notes:
* An external program cannot change its type after creation.
* There can be multiple external programs in a CiviForm instance.

<img width="857" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7d6231ca-cecb-4e24-8f75-d97de01a64bb" />


## View external programs
1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm admin.
2. Click **Programs** on the navigation bar.
3. External programs will be clearly labeled in the program list.

Notes:
* External programs are not visible to Program admins since external programs have no settings they can manage.

<img width="857" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/08fed623-1551-4cda-a012-c0700f453a02" />


## How external programs appear to applicants
When applicants view available programs, external programs are displayed alongside regular CiviForm programs.
When an applicant clicks on an external program card, a modal dialog appears that informs the user that the program will be opened outside of CiviForm. The applicant must accept this modal to proceed, which then opens the external program's website in a new window or tab.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/229bc9b7-bf20-4924-be33-4299931a576c

Commit message:

Add 'NS only' info for external programs

docs/user-manual/civiform-admin-guide/set-external-program.md, after:

# Set an external program

CiviForm admins can add programs hosted outside of CiviForm to reduce the burden on residents of navigating multiple websites to search for relevant programs and information. External programs will be presented to applicants along with other programs, but with a clear indicator that the program opens in a link outside of CiviForm.

## Enable external programs feature
External programs are currently under a feature flag. The feature must be turned on to allow external programs be added by admins and be visible to applicants.
To enable external programs feature:
1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm admin.
2. Select **Settings** on the navgiation bar.
3. Enable **EXTERNAL_PROGRAM_CARDS_ENABLED**.

## Create an external program
1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm admin.
2. Click **Programs** on the navigation bar.
3. Click **Create a new program**.
4. Select **External program** as the program type.
5. Add the link to the external program site.

Notes:
* An external program cannot change its type after creation.
* There can be multiple external programs in a CiviForm instance.

<img width="857" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7d6231ca-cecb-4e24-8f75-d97de01a64bb" />


## View external programs
1. Sign in to CiviForm as a CiviForm admin.
2. Click **Programs** on the navigation bar.
3. External programs will be clearly labeled in the program list.

Notes:
* External programs are not visible to Program admins since external programs have no settings they can manage.

<img width="857" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/08fed623-1551-4cda-a012-c0700f453a02" />


## How external programs appear to applicants
When applicants view available programs, external programs are displayed alongside regular CiviForm programs.
When an applicant clicks on an external program card, a modal dialog appears that informs the user that the program will be opened outside of CiviForm. The applicant must accept this modal to proceed, which then opens the external program's website in a new window or tab.

External programs are only visible to applicants when North Star is enabled.

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/229bc9b7-bf20-4924-be33-4299931a576c
