docs/trusted-intermediaries/overview.md, before:

---
description: The experience of a Trusted Intermediary (e.g. a community based organization)
---

# Overview

Our team knows that residents often turn to local community-based organizations (CBOs) or other third parties to help navigate public benefits programs. These trusted intermediaries are juggling various databases, managing hundreds of applications, and working with several families per day. With CiviForm’s one-stop-shop for your community’s benefits applications, trusted intermediaries have their own accounts to manage their workload from a simple interface.

### Apply on behalf of a resident&#x20;

From their own accounts, trusted intermediaries can create, update, and manage applications on behalf of their clients.

![A Civiform Admin can create a new profile for an organization that applies on behalf of residents.](broken-reference)

### Manage applications from the Trusted Intermediary Dashboard&#x20;

From filtering applicants by programs to tracking application status, trusted intermediaries can visualize and manage their dynamic workload from their own dashboard. Applicant information is viewable by authorized users only.

Commit message:

GitBook: [#71] Adding image of admin adding a Trusted Intermediary

docs/trusted-intermediaries/overview.md, after:

---
description: The experience of a Trusted Intermediary (e.g. a community based organization)
---

# Overview

Our team knows that residents often turn to local community-based organizations (CBOs) or other third parties to help navigate public benefits programs. These trusted intermediaries are juggling various databases, managing hundreds of applications, and working with several families per day. With CiviForm’s one-stop-shop for your community’s benefits applications, trusted intermediaries have their own accounts to manage their workload from a simple interface.

### Apply on behalf of a resident&#x20;

From their own accounts, trusted intermediaries can create, update, and manage applications on behalf of their clients.

![Community-based organizations can be added as trusted intermediaries to apply on behalf of residents.](<../.gitbook/assets/Adding a new trusted intermediary.png>)

### Manage applications from the Trusted Intermediary Dashboard&#x20;

From filtering applicants by programs to tracking application status, trusted intermediaries can visualize and manage their dynamic workload from their own dashboard. Applicant information is viewable by authorized users only.
