docs/it-manual/sre-playbook/initial-deployment.md, before:

# Initial Deployment

This guide is for SREs or DevOps folks. It explains how to do an initial deployment of CiviForm into your production cloud environment.

At the time of first writing (March 2022) CiviForm has these constraints:

* Can be deployed directly into AWS, via direct AWS APIs and tools such as [cloudformation](https://github.com/civiform/civiform-deploy/tree/main/infra).
* Can be deployed into Azure using [Terraform](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/tree/main/cloud/azure).
* (In progress) Can be deployed into AWS using [Terraform](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/tree/main/cloud/aws).
* _In the future, GCP support will likely be added._

## Deploying into AWS or Azure using Terraform

See the [terraform deploy system docs](terraform-deploy-system.md).

## Deploying into AWS using CloudFormation

Our production infrastructure is managed declaratively by [cloudformation](https://github.com/civiform/civiform-deploy/tree/main/infra). To deploy, `run bin/deploy-prod`. You will need the AWS CLI - `brew install awscli`.

Production can also be deployed by kicking off the workflow for this prober [here](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/actions/workflows/cron.yaml). We have turned off scheduled probe and deploys for now.

### Resources not managed by CloudFormation

#### DNS records

The records for staging.seattle.civiform.com and seattle.civiform.com are created in hosted zones managed via Route 53.\
The civiform.com domain name is registered through [Google Domains](https://domains.google.com/registrar/civiform.com/dns) and DNS for the domain is configured to use custom name servers pointing to AWS Route 53. This is necessary to allow AWS to dynamically reassign hosts.

The City of Seattle maintains the DNS record for civiform.seattle.gov. While this should change in the future to avoid taking a dependency on civiform.com, civiform.seattle.gov is currently an alias for seattle.civiform.com so Seattle can leverage AWS name servers without delegating control over an entire subdomain.

#### SSL Certificates

The SSL certs for staging.seattle.civiform.com and seattle.civiform.com are managed in AWS Certificate Manager. The certificate for civiform.seattle.gov is managed by the City of Seattle and is stored in Certificate Manager. Certificate rotation will be enabled for \*.civiform.com, but not for civiform.seattle.gov, since it is impossible to rotate manually managed certificates.

#### Notification endpoints

The messages for tickets or production failures are sent to SNS queues which are maintained by CloudFormation. The distribution lists of those queues are managed in the console.

#### Log processing

Our logs are processed by [this Lambda function](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-west-2#/functions/prod-log-processor?tab=code), which is also managed by the console. You'll need to be signed in to the Civiform AWS account, which you can reach [here](https://seattle-commercial.awsapps.com/start#/).

The logging input is configured in [this panel](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-west-2#/functions/prod-log-processor?tab=configure), and you can read more about how to work with Lambda and CloudWatch logs [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html) and [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/services-cloudwatchlogs.html).

Commit message:

Update links and wording in the initial deployment page (#107)

docs/it-manual/sre-playbook/initial-deployment.md, after:

# Initial Deployment

This guide is for SREs or DevOps folks. It explains how to do an initial deployment of CiviForm into your production cloud environment.

At the time of first writing (March 2022) CiviForm has these constraints:

* Can be deployed directly into AWS, via direct AWS APIs and tools such as [cloudformation](https://github.com/civiform/civiform-deploy/tree/main/infra).
* Can be deployed into Azure using [Terraform](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/tree/main/cloud/azure).
* (In progress) Can be deployed into AWS using [Terraform](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/tree/main/cloud/aws).
* _In the future, GCP support will likely be added._

## Deploying into AWS or Azure using Terraform

See the [terraform deploy system docs](terraform-deploy-system.md), terraform deployment is under active development and is the recommended option for future deployments.

## Deploying into AWS using CloudFormation

Seattle's production infrastructure is managed declaratively by [cloudformation](https://github.com/seattle-civiform/civiform-deploy/tree/main/infra). To deploy, `run bin/deploy-prod`. You will need the AWS CLI - `brew install awscli`.

### Resources not managed by CloudFormation

#### DNS records

The records for staging.seattle.civiform.com and seattle.civiform.com are created in hosted zones managed via Route 53.\
The civiform.com domain name is registered through [Google Domains](https://domains.google.com/registrar/civiform.com/dns) and DNS for the domain is configured to use custom name servers pointing to AWS Route 53. This is necessary to allow AWS to dynamically reassign hosts.

The City of Seattle maintains the DNS record for civiform.seattle.gov. While this should change in the future to avoid taking a dependency on civiform.com, civiform.seattle.gov is currently an alias for seattle.civiform.com so Seattle can leverage AWS name servers without delegating control over an entire subdomain.

#### SSL Certificates

The SSL certs for staging.seattle.civiform.com and seattle.civiform.com are managed in AWS Certificate Manager. The certificate for civiform.seattle.gov is managed by the City of Seattle and is stored in Certificate Manager. Certificate rotation will be enabled for \*.civiform.com, but not for civiform.seattle.gov, since it is impossible to rotate manually managed certificates.

#### Notification endpoints

The messages for tickets or production failures are sent to SNS queues which are maintained by CloudFormation. The distribution lists of those queues are managed in the console.

#### Log processing

Our logs are processed by [this Lambda function](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-west-2#/functions/prod-log-processor?tab=code), which is also managed by the console. You'll need to be signed in to the Civiform AWS account, which you can reach [here](https://seattle-commercial.awsapps.com/start#/).

The logging input is configured in [this panel](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/lambda/home?region=us-west-2#/functions/prod-log-processor?tab=configure), and you can read more about how to work with Lambda and CloudWatch logs [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html) and [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/services-cloudwatchlogs.html).
