docs/contributor-guide/developer-guide/database/db-schema.md, before:

# DB Schema

The database schema is derived by combining all of the [evolution SQL files](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/tree/main/server/conf/evolutions/default) in sequential order. Its current state as of #40 follows.  This can be generated using `pg_dump -s postgres` and then `\d tableName` on the table of interest. See [Play's managing database evolutions documentation](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.8.x/Evolutions) for more.

Each table is mapped to a [models/ class](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/tree/main/server/app/models), and the classes contain more context.

```
                                         Table "public.accounts"
       Column        |        Type         | Collation | Nullable |               Default                
---------------------+---------------------+-----------+----------+--------------------------------------
 id                  | bigint              |           | not null | nextval('accounts_id_seq'::regclass)
 email_address       | character varying   |           |          | 
 member_of_group_id  | bigint              |           |          | 
 managed_by_group_id | bigint              |           |          | 
 admin_of            | character varying[] |           |          | 
 global_admin        | boolean             |           |          | false
 authority_id        | character varying   |           |          | 
Indexes:
    "accounts_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "accounts_authority_id_key" UNIQUE CONSTRAINT, btree (authority_id)
    "accounts_email_address_key" UNIQUE CONSTRAINT, btree (email_address)
    "idx_admin_of" gin (admin_of)
Foreign-key constraints:
    "fk_managed" FOREIGN KEY (managed_by_group_id) REFERENCES ti_organizations(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
    "fk_member" FOREIGN KEY (member_of_group_id) REFERENCES ti_organizations(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
Referenced by:
    TABLE "applicants" CONSTRAINT "applicants_account_id_fkey" FOREIGN KEY (account_id) REFERENCES accounts(id)
    TABLE "application_events" CONSTRAINT "fk_creator" FOREIGN KEY (creator_id) REFERENCES accounts(id)

                                           Table "public.applicants"
      Column      |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |                Default
------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+----------------------------------------
 id               | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('applicants_id_seq'::regclass)
 preferred_locale | character varying           |           |          |
 object           | jsonb                       |           | not null |
 account_id       | bigint                      |           |          |
 when_created     | timestamp without time zone |           |          |
Indexes:
    "applicants_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
Foreign-key constraints:
    "applicants_account_id_fkey" FOREIGN KEY (account_id) REFERENCES accounts(id)
Referenced by:
    TABLE "applications" CONSTRAINT "fk_applicant" FOREIGN KEY (applicant_id) REFERENCES applicants(id)

                                             Table "public.api_keys"
        Column        |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |               Default                
----------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+--------------------------------------
 id                   | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('api_keys_id_seq'::regclass)
 name                 | character varying           |           | not null | 
 create_time          | timestamp without time zone |           | not null | 
 update_time          | timestamp without time zone |           | not null | 
 created_by           | character varying           |           | not null | 
 retired_time         | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 retired_by           | character varying           |           |          | 
 key_id               | character varying           |           | not null | 
 salted_key_secret    | character varying           |           | not null | 
 subnet               | character varying           |           | not null | 
 expiration           | timestamp without time zone |           | not null | 
 call_count           | bigint                      |           | not null | 0
 last_call_ip_address | character varying           |           |          | 
 grants               | jsonb                       |           | not null | 
Indexes:
    "api_keys_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "api_key_ids" UNIQUE, btree (key_id)
    "api_keys_key_id_key" UNIQUE CONSTRAINT, btree (key_id)
    "api_keys_salted_key_secret_key" UNIQUE CONSTRAINT, btree (salted_key_secret)

                                           Table "public.applications"
      Column      |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |                 Default                  
------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+------------------------------------------
 id               | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('applications_id_seq'::regclass)
 applicant_id     | bigint                      |           |          | 
 program_id       | bigint                      |           |          | 
 object           | jsonb                       |           | not null | 
 lifecycle_stage  | character varying           |           |          | 
 submit_time      | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 submitter_email  | character varying(255)      |           |          | 
 create_time      | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 preferred_locale | character varying           |           |          | 
Indexes:
    "applications_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
Foreign-key constraints:
    "fk_applicant" FOREIGN KEY (applicant_id) REFERENCES applicants(id)
    "fk_program" FOREIGN KEY (program_id) REFERENCES programs(id)
Referenced by:
    TABLE "application_events" CONSTRAINT "fk_application" FOREIGN KEY (application_id) REFERENCES applications(id)

                                          Table "public.application_events"
     Column     |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |                    Default                     
----------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+------------------------------------------------
 id             | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('application_events_id_seq'::regclass)
 application_id | bigint                      |           |          | 
 creator_id     | bigint                      |           |          | 
 event_type     | character varying           |           | not null | 
 details        | jsonb                       |           | not null | 
 create_time    | timestamp without time zone |           | not null | 
Indexes:
    "application_events_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "index_application_events_by_application" UNIQUE, btree (application_id)
    "index_application_events_by_creator" UNIQUE, btree (creator_id)
Foreign-key constraints:
    "fk_application" FOREIGN KEY (application_id) REFERENCES applications(id)
    "fk_creator" FOREIGN KEY (creator_id) REFERENCES accounts(id)

                                          Table "public.files"
       Column       |          Type          | Collation | Nullable |              Default
--------------------+------------------------+-----------+----------+-----------------------------------
 id                 | bigint                 |           | not null | nextval('files_id_seq'::regclass)
 name               | character varying(255) |           |          | 
 original_file_name | character varying      |           |          | 
 acls               | jsonb                  |           |          | '{}'::jsonb
Indexes:
    "files_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "index_file_names" UNIQUE, btree (name)

                                            Table "public.persisted_durable_jobs"
       Column       |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |                      Default
--------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+----------------------------------------------------
 id                 | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('persisted_durable_jobs_id_seq'::regclass)
 job_name           | character varying           |           | not null |
 execution_time     | timestamp without time zone |           | not null |
 success_time       | timestamp without time zone |           |          |
 create_time        | timestamp without time zone |           | not null |
 remaining_attempts | smallint                    |           | not null |
 error_message      | character varying           |           |          |
Indexes:
    "persisted_durable_jobs_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "index_persisted_durable_jobs_by_execution_time" btree (execution_time)
    "index_persisted_durable_jobs_by_success_time" btree (success_time)

                                                 Table "public.programs"
            Column            |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |               Default                
------------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+--------------------------------------
 id                           | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('programs_id_seq'::regclass)
 name                         | character varying           |           |          | 
 description                  | character varying           |           |          | 
 block_definitions            | jsonb                       |           | not null | 
 export_definitions           | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 legacy_localized_name        | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 legacy_localized_description | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 slug                         | character varying           |           |          | 
 localized_name               | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 localized_description        | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 external_link                | character varying           |           |          | ''::character varying
 display_mode                 | character varying           |           | not null | 'PUBLIC'::character varying
 create_time                  | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 last_modified_time           | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 status_definitions           | jsonb                       |           |          | '{"statuses": []}'::jsonb
Indexes:
    "programs_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
Referenced by:
    TABLE "applications" CONSTRAINT "fk_program" FOREIGN KEY (program_id) REFERENCES programs(id)
                                            Table "public.questions"
          Column           |        Type         | Collation | Nullable |                Default
---------------------------+---------------------+-----------+----------+---------------------------------------
 id                        | bigint              |           | not null | nextval('questions_id_seq'::regclass)
 name                      | character varying   |           |          |
 description               | character varying   |           |          |
 question_type             | character varying   |           |          |
 legacy_question_text      | jsonb               |           |          |
 legacy_question_help_text | jsonb               |           |          |
 validation_predicates     | jsonb               |           |          |
 legacy_question_options   | jsonb               |           |          |
 enumerator_id             | bigint              |           |          |
 question_options          | jsonb               |           |          |
 question_text             | jsonb               |           |          |
 question_help_text        | jsonb               |           |          |
 enumerator_entity_type    | jsonb               |           |          |
 question_tags             | character varying[] |           |          |
Indexes:
    "questions_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "idx_question_tags" gin (question_tags)
    "questions_by_name" btree (name)

                                    Table "public.ti_organizations"
   Column    |       Type        | Collation | Nullable |                   Default
-------------+-------------------+-----------+----------+----------------------------------------------
 id          | bigint            |           | not null | nextval('ti_organizations_id_seq'::regclass)
 name        | character varying |           | not null |
 description | character varying |           |          |
Indexes:
    "ti_organizations_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
Referenced by:
    TABLE "accounts" CONSTRAINT "fk_managed" FOREIGN KEY (managed_by_group_id) REFERENCES ti_organizations(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
    TABLE "accounts" CONSTRAINT "fk_member" FOREIGN KEY (member_of_group_id) REFERENCES ti_organizations(id) ON DELETE SET NULL

                                                Table "public.versions"
          Column           |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |               Default
---------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+--------------------------------------
 id                        | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('versions_id_seq'::regclass)
 lifecycle_stage           | character varying           |           | not null |
 submit_time               | timestamp without time zone |           |          |
 tombstoned_question_names | character varying[]         |           |          |
 tombstoned_program_names  | character varying[]         |           |          |
Indexes:
    "versions_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)

           Table "public.versions_programs"
   Column    |  Type  | Collation | Nullable | Default
-------------+--------+-----------+----------+---------
 programs_id | bigint |           | not null |
 versions_id | bigint |           | not null |
Indexes:
    "versions_programs_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (programs_id, versions_id)

           Table "public.versions_questions"
    Column    |  Type  | Collation | Nullable | Default
--------------+--------+-----------+----------+---------
 questions_id | bigint |           | not null |
 versions_id  | bigint |           | not null |
Indexes:
    "versions_questions_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (questions_id, versions_id)
```

Commit message:

add note about out of date schema (#295)

docs/contributor-guide/developer-guide/database/db-schema.md, after:

# DB Schema

The database schema is derived by combining all of the [evolution SQL files](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/tree/main/server/conf/evolutions/default) in sequential order. The state as of evolution #40 is copied below. Please note that this is meant as an example and is not kept up to date. An up to date printout of the schema can be generated by running `pg_dump -s postgres` and then `\d tableName` on the table of interest. See [Play's managing database evolutions documentation](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.8.x/Evolutions) for more.

Each table is mapped to a [models/ class](https://github.com/civiform/civiform/tree/main/server/app/models), and the classes contain more context.

```
                                         Table "public.accounts"
       Column        |        Type         | Collation | Nullable |               Default                
---------------------+---------------------+-----------+----------+--------------------------------------
 id                  | bigint              |           | not null | nextval('accounts_id_seq'::regclass)
 email_address       | character varying   |           |          | 
 member_of_group_id  | bigint              |           |          | 
 managed_by_group_id | bigint              |           |          | 
 admin_of            | character varying[] |           |          | 
 global_admin        | boolean             |           |          | false
 authority_id        | character varying   |           |          | 
Indexes:
    "accounts_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "accounts_authority_id_key" UNIQUE CONSTRAINT, btree (authority_id)
    "accounts_email_address_key" UNIQUE CONSTRAINT, btree (email_address)
    "idx_admin_of" gin (admin_of)
Foreign-key constraints:
    "fk_managed" FOREIGN KEY (managed_by_group_id) REFERENCES ti_organizations(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
    "fk_member" FOREIGN KEY (member_of_group_id) REFERENCES ti_organizations(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
Referenced by:
    TABLE "applicants" CONSTRAINT "applicants_account_id_fkey" FOREIGN KEY (account_id) REFERENCES accounts(id)
    TABLE "application_events" CONSTRAINT "fk_creator" FOREIGN KEY (creator_id) REFERENCES accounts(id)

                                           Table "public.applicants"
      Column      |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |                Default
------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+----------------------------------------
 id               | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('applicants_id_seq'::regclass)
 preferred_locale | character varying           |           |          |
 object           | jsonb                       |           | not null |
 account_id       | bigint                      |           |          |
 when_created     | timestamp without time zone |           |          |
Indexes:
    "applicants_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
Foreign-key constraints:
    "applicants_account_id_fkey" FOREIGN KEY (account_id) REFERENCES accounts(id)
Referenced by:
    TABLE "applications" CONSTRAINT "fk_applicant" FOREIGN KEY (applicant_id) REFERENCES applicants(id)

                                             Table "public.api_keys"
        Column        |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |               Default                
----------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+--------------------------------------
 id                   | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('api_keys_id_seq'::regclass)
 name                 | character varying           |           | not null | 
 create_time          | timestamp without time zone |           | not null | 
 update_time          | timestamp without time zone |           | not null | 
 created_by           | character varying           |           | not null | 
 retired_time         | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 retired_by           | character varying           |           |          | 
 key_id               | character varying           |           | not null | 
 salted_key_secret    | character varying           |           | not null | 
 subnet               | character varying           |           | not null | 
 expiration           | timestamp without time zone |           | not null | 
 call_count           | bigint                      |           | not null | 0
 last_call_ip_address | character varying           |           |          | 
 grants               | jsonb                       |           | not null | 
Indexes:
    "api_keys_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "api_key_ids" UNIQUE, btree (key_id)
    "api_keys_key_id_key" UNIQUE CONSTRAINT, btree (key_id)
    "api_keys_salted_key_secret_key" UNIQUE CONSTRAINT, btree (salted_key_secret)

                                           Table "public.applications"
      Column      |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |                 Default                  
------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+------------------------------------------
 id               | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('applications_id_seq'::regclass)
 applicant_id     | bigint                      |           |          | 
 program_id       | bigint                      |           |          | 
 object           | jsonb                       |           | not null | 
 lifecycle_stage  | character varying           |           |          | 
 submit_time      | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 submitter_email  | character varying(255)      |           |          | 
 create_time      | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 preferred_locale | character varying           |           |          | 
Indexes:
    "applications_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
Foreign-key constraints:
    "fk_applicant" FOREIGN KEY (applicant_id) REFERENCES applicants(id)
    "fk_program" FOREIGN KEY (program_id) REFERENCES programs(id)
Referenced by:
    TABLE "application_events" CONSTRAINT "fk_application" FOREIGN KEY (application_id) REFERENCES applications(id)

                                          Table "public.application_events"
     Column     |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |                    Default                     
----------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+------------------------------------------------
 id             | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('application_events_id_seq'::regclass)
 application_id | bigint                      |           |          | 
 creator_id     | bigint                      |           |          | 
 event_type     | character varying           |           | not null | 
 details        | jsonb                       |           | not null | 
 create_time    | timestamp without time zone |           | not null | 
Indexes:
    "application_events_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "index_application_events_by_application" UNIQUE, btree (application_id)
    "index_application_events_by_creator" UNIQUE, btree (creator_id)
Foreign-key constraints:
    "fk_application" FOREIGN KEY (application_id) REFERENCES applications(id)
    "fk_creator" FOREIGN KEY (creator_id) REFERENCES accounts(id)

                                          Table "public.files"
       Column       |          Type          | Collation | Nullable |              Default
--------------------+------------------------+-----------+----------+-----------------------------------
 id                 | bigint                 |           | not null | nextval('files_id_seq'::regclass)
 name               | character varying(255) |           |          | 
 original_file_name | character varying      |           |          | 
 acls               | jsonb                  |           |          | '{}'::jsonb
Indexes:
    "files_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "index_file_names" UNIQUE, btree (name)

                                            Table "public.persisted_durable_jobs"
       Column       |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |                      Default
--------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+----------------------------------------------------
 id                 | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('persisted_durable_jobs_id_seq'::regclass)
 job_name           | character varying           |           | not null |
 execution_time     | timestamp without time zone |           | not null |
 success_time       | timestamp without time zone |           |          |
 create_time        | timestamp without time zone |           | not null |
 remaining_attempts | smallint                    |           | not null |
 error_message      | character varying           |           |          |
Indexes:
    "persisted_durable_jobs_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "index_persisted_durable_jobs_by_execution_time" btree (execution_time)
    "index_persisted_durable_jobs_by_success_time" btree (success_time)

                                                 Table "public.programs"
            Column            |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |               Default                
------------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+--------------------------------------
 id                           | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('programs_id_seq'::regclass)
 name                         | character varying           |           |          | 
 description                  | character varying           |           |          | 
 block_definitions            | jsonb                       |           | not null | 
 export_definitions           | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 legacy_localized_name        | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 legacy_localized_description | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 slug                         | character varying           |           |          | 
 localized_name               | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 localized_description        | jsonb                       |           |          | 
 external_link                | character varying           |           |          | ''::character varying
 display_mode                 | character varying           |           | not null | 'PUBLIC'::character varying
 create_time                  | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 last_modified_time           | timestamp without time zone |           |          | 
 status_definitions           | jsonb                       |           |          | '{"statuses": []}'::jsonb
Indexes:
    "programs_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
Referenced by:
    TABLE "applications" CONSTRAINT "fk_program" FOREIGN KEY (program_id) REFERENCES programs(id)
                                            Table "public.questions"
          Column           |        Type         | Collation | Nullable |                Default
---------------------------+---------------------+-----------+----------+---------------------------------------
 id                        | bigint              |           | not null | nextval('questions_id_seq'::regclass)
 name                      | character varying   |           |          |
 description               | character varying   |           |          |
 question_type             | character varying   |           |          |
 legacy_question_text      | jsonb               |           |          |
 legacy_question_help_text | jsonb               |           |          |
 validation_predicates     | jsonb               |           |          |
 legacy_question_options   | jsonb               |           |          |
 enumerator_id             | bigint              |           |          |
 question_options          | jsonb               |           |          |
 question_text             | jsonb               |           |          |
 question_help_text        | jsonb               |           |          |
 enumerator_entity_type    | jsonb               |           |          |
 question_tags             | character varying[] |           |          |
Indexes:
    "questions_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
    "idx_question_tags" gin (question_tags)
    "questions_by_name" btree (name)

                                    Table "public.ti_organizations"
   Column    |       Type        | Collation | Nullable |                   Default
-------------+-------------------+-----------+----------+----------------------------------------------
 id          | bigint            |           | not null | nextval('ti_organizations_id_seq'::regclass)
 name        | character varying |           | not null |
 description | character varying |           |          |
Indexes:
    "ti_organizations_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)
Referenced by:
    TABLE "accounts" CONSTRAINT "fk_managed" FOREIGN KEY (managed_by_group_id) REFERENCES ti_organizations(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
    TABLE "accounts" CONSTRAINT "fk_member" FOREIGN KEY (member_of_group_id) REFERENCES ti_organizations(id) ON DELETE SET NULL

                                                Table "public.versions"
          Column           |            Type             | Collation | Nullable |               Default
---------------------------+-----------------------------+-----------+----------+--------------------------------------
 id                        | bigint                      |           | not null | nextval('versions_id_seq'::regclass)
 lifecycle_stage           | character varying           |           | not null |
 submit_time               | timestamp without time zone |           |          |
 tombstoned_question_names | character varying[]         |           |          |
 tombstoned_program_names  | character varying[]         |           |          |
Indexes:
    "versions_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (id)

           Table "public.versions_programs"
   Column    |  Type  | Collation | Nullable | Default
-------------+--------+-----------+----------+---------
 programs_id | bigint |           | not null |
 versions_id | bigint |           | not null |
Indexes:
    "versions_programs_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (programs_id, versions_id)

           Table "public.versions_questions"
    Column    |  Type  | Collation | Nullable | Default
--------------+--------+-----------+----------+---------
 questions_id | bigint |           | not null |
 versions_id  | bigint |           | not null |
Indexes:
    "versions_questions_pkey" PRIMARY KEY, btree (questions_id, versions_id)
```
