docs/governance-and-management/governance/communication.md, before:

# Communication Guidelines

These are the communication guidelines for the Civiform community,
including anyone interested in contributing to the open source project. 

  - **For announcements & recognition → email lists.** Why? Emails
    are accessible and universally used across organizations.
  - **For tracking work → GitHub.** Why? GitHub is our project
    management tool and should be the source of truth for ongoing work. 
  - **For all other communications → Slack.** Why? Slack is accessible
    across organizations and is useful for immediate conversations. 

## Google Groups

Google Groups enable people to post and engage in discussion topics via
forums or email. Certain Google Groups are also used to manage access to
shared documents. All group aliases are @googlegroups.com.

|Google Group|Purpose & Audience|Permissions|How to join|
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| civiform-announce    | Announcements to the Civiform community. Join if you are a contributor or maintainer.                                                                       | Only managers can post. Anyone can view posts.       | [Join here](https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/civiform-announce)         |
| civiform-technical   | Technical announcements. Join if you are a technical contributor (e.g. software engineers).                                                                 | Anyone on web can post. Only members can view posts. | [Request to join](https://groups.google.com/g/civiform-technical)      |
| civiform-escalations | Sensitive and non-public incident reports or technical escalations Join if you are an on-call software engineer.                                            | Anyone on web can post. Only members can view posts. | Invite only. Contact @bionj to be added.                                 |
| civiform-newsletter  | Updates about ongoing projects and product development, shared with active collaborators. Join if you are an active collaborator and interested in updates. | Only members can post. Only members can view posts.  | [Request to join](https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/civiform-newsletter) |
| civiform-governance  | Discussions for Governance leads. Join if you are a Governance lead for your civic entity.                                                                  | Anyone on web can post. Only members can view posts. | Invite only. Contact @tareens to be added.                               |
| civiform-docs        | Access control for CiviForm Drive. Join if you want to access the “CiviForm Project Private” folder of the CiviForm Drive or edit Drive files.              | N/A                                                  | [Request to join](https://groups.google.com/g/civiform-docs)           |
| civiform-outreach    | Email alias for general inquiries into CiviForm ([info@civiform.us](mailto:info@civiform.us) forwards here). Join if you want to be involved in outreach. | Only members can post, only members can view.        |                                                                          |

## Slack Channels

[**Slack**](https://civiform.slack.com) should be used by individuals
actively contributing to and / or maintaining CiviForm.

Note: If we find that collaborators at civic entities cannot use Slack,
we should reassess this approach.

[**civiform.slack.com**](https://civiform.slack.com)

|Slack Channel|Purpose|Who should join?|
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **\#general**                       | All general announcements                                    | Everyone                                                                   |
| **\#introductions**                 | Introduce yourself to the Civiform community                 | Everyone (optional)                                                        |
| **\#engineering**                   | For any and all engineering discussions                      | Software Engineers, PMs (optional)                                         |
| **\#pull-request-discuss**          | For deep dive discussions on PR reviews                      | Software Engineers                                                         |
| **\#civiform-gh**                   | For bot updates from github (e.g. new issue created, new PR) | Software Engineers, PMs                                                    |
| **\#offtopic**                      | For off topic fun                                            | Anyone                                                                     |
| **\#prox-management**               | For PM and UX discussions                                    | PMs, UX                                                                    |
| **\#new-contributors**              | For questions by new contributors to the codebase.           | Software Engineers                                                         |
| **\#civic-entity (e.g. \#seattle)** | For topic-specific discussions with a given civic entity.    | Anyone from the specified civic entity and their designated collaborators. |
| **\#story-acceptance**              | *This channel is currently live but is not used.*            |                                                                            |

Slack Norms:

  - Should add descriptions of purpose directly to channels in Slack.
  - Use threads to centralize discussions on a particular topic
  - Use @channel and @here judiciously
  - If you’ve never used Slack before, watch this [4 min intro
    video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=812kbhp0WdY) for the basics

## Shared Drive

NOTE: **If your Google Workspace domain (e.g. google.com) does not
allow you to create external documents, use and rename an existing
‘Untitled Document’ in the CiviForm Project Drive.**

**[CiviForm Project Shared Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/0AKgM9uEfEnzRUk9PVA)**

  - Created through civiform.us Google Workspace.
  - Join the **civiform-docs@** Google Group to access and edit
    documents.
    
|CiviForm Project Folder|Purpose|Permissions|
|-------------|-------|---------------|
|[Public Folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1LT7ZivhjXb5iSxwisuF11CjUMKPYjpi0)|For documents that are intended to be publicly visible and commentable.|Anyone on the internet with this link can view and comment.|
|[Private Folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1svFQEY73YpI9k0-wyfqY2UU_w8hUFIAG)|For non-public files that other CiviForm contributors are collaborating on.|Restricted. Only people in the **civiform-docs@** Google Group can view and edit.|

## Types of communications

### Google Groups

  - I have an **announcement for developers or technical contributors**
    (“feedback on new technical design requested”) civiform-technical@
  - I have an **announcement for an IT team managing a deployment**
    (“new release, install update”, “critical security fix has been
    released”) civiform-announce@
  - I have a **non-technical announcement for users or program
    administrators** (“a new feature has been released”)
    civiform-announce@
  - I want to **recognize or celebrate work** (“We launched CiviForm in
    this city\!”) civiform-announce@

### Github

  - I have an **idea** for a feature (“I think we should have an
    application tracker”)
  - I want to report a **bug** (“This feature isn’t working as
    expected”)
  - I want to **follow the status of this Github issue** (“what happened
    with that bug?”)

### Slack

  - I want to **discuss this PR** (“I have some questions about this
    PR”) \#pull-request-discuss
  - I want **support** on this issue (“I’m looking to pair with someone
    on this”) \#engineering
  - I want to **get to know other CiviForm contributors** (“Who else is
    working on CiviForm?”) \#introductions
  - I need **eng help** (“I’m having problems setting up CiviForm on my
    local” OR “This software build is broken”) \#engineering
  - I have **questions about CiviForm** (“how do Trusted Intermediaries
    use CiviForm?”) \#general
  - I want to chat with people who are working **with a specific Civic
    Entity** (“We are delayed for x weeks,” or “We need someone to
    recess the security audit”) \#civic-entity

### No Wrong Door Policy

  - I have a **sensitive escalation** (“I found a security issue”)
  - I have a **non-sensitive escalation** (“I have an incident” “Who’s
    on call?”)

### Public Drive

  - I want **feedback on this document** (“I want feedback on this
    PRD”)

### www.civiform.us

  - I want to **learn about CiviForm** (“What is CiviForm?”)

Commit message:

Add info about civiform-cloud-deploy-infra-test-notifications

docs/governance-and-management/governance/communication.md, after:

# Communication Guidelines

These are the communication guidelines for the Civiform community,
including anyone interested in contributing to the open source project. 

  - **For announcements & recognition → email lists.** Why? Emails
    are accessible and universally used across organizations.
  - **For tracking work → GitHub.** Why? GitHub is our project
    management tool and should be the source of truth for ongoing work. 
  - **For all other communications → Slack.** Why? Slack is accessible
    across organizations and is useful for immediate conversations. 

## Google Groups

Google Groups enable people to post and engage in discussion topics via
forums or email. Certain Google Groups are also used to manage access to
shared documents. All group aliases are @googlegroups.com.

|Google Group|Purpose & Audience|Permissions|How to join|
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| civiform-announce                               | Announcements to the Civiform community. Join if you are a contributor or maintainer.                                                                       | Only managers can post. Anyone can view posts.       | [Join here](https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/civiform-announce)                                |
| civiform-technical                              | Technical announcements. Join if you are a technical contributor (e.g. software engineers).                                                                 | Anyone on web can post. Only members can view posts. | [Request to join](https://groups.google.com/g/civiform-technical)                             |
| civiform-cloud-deploy-infra-test-notifications  | Group used to forward automated test infrastructure emails to. Join if you are working on the deploy system.                                                | Anyone on web can post. Only members can view posts. | [Request to join](https://groups.google.com/g/civiform-cloud-deploy-infra-test-notifications) |
| civiform-escalations                            | Sensitive and non-public incident reports or technical escalations Join if you are an on-call software engineer.                                            | Anyone on web can post. Only members can view posts. | Invite only. Contact @bionj to be added.                                                      |
| civiform-newsletter                             | Updates about ongoing projects and product development, shared with active collaborators. Join if you are an active collaborator and interested in updates. | Only members can post. Only members can view posts.  | [Request to join](https://groups.google.com/u/1/g/civiform-newsletter)                        |
| civiform-governance                             | Discussions for Governance leads. Join if you are a Governance lead for your civic entity.                                                                  | Anyone on web can post. Only members can view posts. | Invite only. Contact @tareens to be added.                                                    |
| civiform-docs                                   | Access control for CiviForm Drive. Join if you want to access the “CiviForm Project Private” folder of the CiviForm Drive or edit Drive files.              | N/A                                                  | [Request to join](https://groups.google.com/g/civiform-docs)                                  |
| civiform-outreach                               | Email alias for general inquiries into CiviForm ([info@civiform.us](mailto:info@civiform.us) forwards here). Join if you want to be involved in outreach.   | Only members can post, only members can view.        |                                                                                               |

## Slack Channels

[**Slack**](https://civiform.slack.com) should be used by individuals
actively contributing to and / or maintaining CiviForm.

Note: If we find that collaborators at civic entities cannot use Slack,
we should reassess this approach.

[**civiform.slack.com**](https://civiform.slack.com)

|Slack Channel|Purpose|Who should join?|
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **\#general**                       | All general announcements                                    | Everyone                                                                   |
| **\#introductions**                 | Introduce yourself to the Civiform community                 | Everyone (optional)                                                        |
| **\#engineering**                   | For any and all engineering discussions                      | Software Engineers, PMs (optional)                                         |
| **\#pull-request-discuss**          | For deep dive discussions on PR reviews                      | Software Engineers                                                         |
| **\#civiform-gh**                   | For bot updates from github (e.g. new issue created, new PR) | Software Engineers, PMs                                                    |
| **\#offtopic**                      | For off topic fun                                            | Anyone                                                                     |
| **\#prox-management**               | For PM and UX discussions                                    | PMs, UX                                                                    |
| **\#new-contributors**              | For questions by new contributors to the codebase.           | Software Engineers                                                         |
| **\#civic-entity (e.g. \#seattle)** | For topic-specific discussions with a given civic entity.    | Anyone from the specified civic entity and their designated collaborators. |
| **\#story-acceptance**              | *This channel is currently live but is not used.*            |                                                                            |

Slack Norms:

  - Should add descriptions of purpose directly to channels in Slack.
  - Use threads to centralize discussions on a particular topic
  - Use @channel and @here judiciously
  - If you’ve never used Slack before, watch this [4 min intro
    video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=812kbhp0WdY) for the basics

## Shared Drive

NOTE: **If your Google Workspace domain (e.g. google.com) does not
allow you to create external documents, use and rename an existing
‘Untitled Document’ in the CiviForm Project Drive.**

**[CiviForm Project Shared Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/0AKgM9uEfEnzRUk9PVA)**

  - Created through civiform.us Google Workspace.
  - Join the **civiform-docs@** Google Group to access and edit
    documents.
    
|CiviForm Project Folder|Purpose|Permissions|
|-------------|-------|---------------|
|[Public Folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1LT7ZivhjXb5iSxwisuF11CjUMKPYjpi0)|For documents that are intended to be publicly visible and commentable.|Anyone on the internet with this link can view and comment.|
|[Private Folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1svFQEY73YpI9k0-wyfqY2UU_w8hUFIAG)|For non-public files that other CiviForm contributors are collaborating on.|Restricted. Only people in the **civiform-docs@** Google Group can view and edit.|

## Types of communications

### Google Groups

  - I have an **announcement for developers or technical contributors**
    (“feedback on new technical design requested”) civiform-technical@
  - I have an **announcement for an IT team managing a deployment**
    (“new release, install update”, “critical security fix has been
    released”) civiform-announce@
  - I have a **non-technical announcement for users or program
    administrators** (“a new feature has been released”)
    civiform-announce@
  - I want to **recognize or celebrate work** (“We launched CiviForm in
    this city\!”) civiform-announce@

### Github

  - I have an **idea** for a feature (“I think we should have an
    application tracker”)
  - I want to report a **bug** (“This feature isn’t working as
    expected”)
  - I want to **follow the status of this Github issue** (“what happened
    with that bug?”)

### Slack

  - I want to **discuss this PR** (“I have some questions about this
    PR”) \#pull-request-discuss
  - I want **support** on this issue (“I’m looking to pair with someone
    on this”) \#engineering
  - I want to **get to know other CiviForm contributors** (“Who else is
    working on CiviForm?”) \#introductions
  - I need **eng help** (“I’m having problems setting up CiviForm on my
    local” OR “This software build is broken”) \#engineering
  - I have **questions about CiviForm** (“how do Trusted Intermediaries
    use CiviForm?”) \#general
  - I want to chat with people who are working **with a specific Civic
    Entity** (“We are delayed for x weeks,” or “We need someone to
    recess the security audit”) \#civic-entity

### No Wrong Door Policy

  - I have a **sensitive escalation** (“I found a security issue”)
  - I have a **non-sensitive escalation** (“I have an incident” “Who’s
    on call?”)

### Public Drive

  - I want **feedback on this document** (“I want feedback on this
    PRD”)

### www.civiform.us

  - I want to **learn about CiviForm** (“What is CiviForm?”)
